From labc-2ic@WEB.berkeley.edu Fri May 24 00:28:35 1991
Received: from weaver.Berkeley.EDU by soda.berkeley.edu (5.61/CHAOS3)
	id AA04800; Fri, 24 May 91 00:28:31 -0700
Received: from e260-2f.berkeley.edu by weaver.berkeley.edu (4.1/1.33(web))
	id AA09921; Fri, 24 May 91 00:30:18 PDT
Date: Fri, 24 May 91 00:30:17 PDT
From: labc-2ic@WEB.berkeley.edu (Eric van Bezooijen)
Message-Id: <9105240730.AA09921@weaver.berkeley.edu>
To: labc-3id@WEB.berkeley.edu
Status: R

GRILJOR X EDITPASS CHARACTER EDITOR DOCUMENTATION
------- - -------- --------- ------ -------------

	Xeditpass is the slick X-interface for editpass, the Griljor
character editor.  It allows you to change any field of any character
which has played Griljor.  It is intended that only the caretaker of
Griljor have access to this program, as it gives one unlimited power
of other people's characters.

REQUIREMENTS
------------

To run Xeditpass, you must have the following in the same directory :

errorx.c
xx.c 
processorx.c 
menux.c 
attributesx.c 
importx.c 
scrollx.c  
sliderx.c 
bitmapx.c 
timex.c 
editpass.c 
error.c 
lib.c 
password.c  
X11ReadBitmapFile.c 
X11WriteBitmapFile.c
The Makefile for Xeditpass
A players file
icon.bit
title.bit
disc_icon.bit
grey.bit
pict.bit
slider.bit

USING THE PROGRAM
----- --- -------

]]BACKGROUND
  ----------

	When people play griljor, they create characters which Griljor
saves in the players file.  All the character's qualities, including a
bitmap if they made one, are saved in the players file.  Xeditpass allows
you to change them.  Don't forget that Xeditpass MUST have a players file
from Griljor to function.  Without it, you won't be able to do anything.

]]GETTING STARTED
  ------- -------

	When the X-window pops up, you will see the following, from
top to bottom :  the griljor character editor processor status meter,
with a radio button next to it,  the message window, below it the bitmap 
editing area (which will be occupied with a title bitmap at startup), 
the scrolling area in which all the players are listed with the scroll bar 
at the right, the player attributes and menu window, the text entering 
window, and the lower menu.

		Name 				Function
		----				--------

Griljor Character Editor Processor Status Meter Shows how fast X is running.
						It can be turned off with
						the radio button next to it.
						Turning this off will 
						significantly speed X up.

		Message Window			Shows messages generated
						by Xeditpass.

		Bitmap Window			If characters have saved
						bitmaps, they can be
						shown here.

		Scrolling Window		Allows a user to scroll 
						through the list of names.

Player Attributes Window and Menu Window	Shows the attributes of
						selected players, and
						has buttons to use the
						functions of Xeditpass.

		Text Window			Users enter text here.

		Second Menu Window		More functions.


]]HOW EDIT A CHARACTER
  --- ---- - ---------

	To edit a character, click on it in the scrolling window.  The
player's attributes will be listed in the player attributes window.  To
change a field, (for instance their number of kills), click on the field,
and enter the new number/text in the text window.  Pressing return
in the text window without entering anything will not change the field.


]]SCROLLING WINDOW
  --------- ------

	The scrolling window shows you the list of players to be edited.
In non-genocide mode, the first column shows the player name, the second
the number of hit-points, the third their login name, and the last their
machine that they last logged in from.  The last two columns list whether
characters in the scrolling window have God-mode on, or if they have a 
bitmap.  A little cross signifies gods, and a little horsie signifies
people with bitmaps.  In genocide mode, the amount of hit-points will not
be shown, and instead the character's date will be shown.

]]COMMANDS
  --------

Quit : Exits the program.
Add Character : Adds a new character, with empty attribute fields to the list.
Delete Character : Destroys a character.
Bitmap File Name : Specifies a file to load a player bitmap from.
Mask File Name : Specifies a file to load a player mask from.
Toggle Bitmaps : Toggles whether or not a player's bitmap & mask are shown in 
                 the bitmap window.
Toggle Grid : Toggles whether or not a grid is used to display the bitmap and
              mask.
Memory >> Bitmap : See section bitmaps.
Memory >> Mask : See section bitmaps.
Memory << Bitmap : See section bitmaps.
Memory << Mask : See section bitmaps.
Edit Bitmap : See section bitmaps.
Edit Mask : See section bitmaps.
Toggle Genocide : Toggles the genocide mode.  In genocide mode, each character
you select will be eliminated from the list of characters.  This is useful
for eliminating large numbers of old charcaters.
Load Bitmap File : See section bitmaps.
Load Mask File : See section bitmaps.
No, Yes : Clicked to answer no/yes questions.
Save Bitmap File : See section bitmaps.
Save Mask File : See section bitmaps.

]]BITMAPS
  -------

	In X-editpass, you have full power over bitmaps.  Bitmaps may
be loaded, changed, copied, and saved.  You are given a "memory" storage
place, where one bitmap and one mask may be stored, to be saved or copied
to a player.  

]]]]BITMAP COMMANDS
    ------ --------

Bitmap File Name : Specifies the file load from or save bitmaps to.
Mask File Name : Specifies the file load from or save masks to.
Memory >> Bitmap : Copies the contents of memory into the current
                    selected player bitmap.
Memory >> Mask : Copies the contents of memory into a the current
		    selected player mask.
Memory << Bitmap : Copies the selected player bitmap into the contents 
                   of memory.
Memory << Bitmap : Copies the selected player mask into the contents 
                   of memory.
Edit Bitmap : Calls the X-windows BITMAP program, and allows you to change
              the bitmap.
Edit Mask : Calls the X-windows BITMAP program, and allows you to change
              the mask.
Load Bitmap File : Loads the bitmap file into memory.
Load Mask File : Loads the mask file into memory.
Save Bitmap File : Saves the bitmap memory to the bitmap file.
Save Mask File : Saves the mask memory to the bitmap file.

Example : Say I wanted to save the bitmap and mask into the files
"bitmap" and "mask".  I would select <bitmap file name> and enter
"bitmap",and then select <mask file name>, and enter "mask".  I
would select <memory << Bitmap> and <memory << Mask> to transfer
the currently selected player's bitmap and mask into memory, and
then <save bitmap file> and then <save mask file> to save the current
player's bitmap and mask into a file.  If the <toggle bitmaps> has
been selected to show bitmaps, then the bitmap and mask filenames
will be displayed in between the bitmap and the mask.

HOW TO QUIT
--- -- ----

	To quit, press the quit button.  You will be asked if you
are certain.  No returns to the program, and pressing Yes results
the computer if asking if you want to save your changes.  Saying
No to this will not leave the players file just as you left it, while
saying Yes will overwrite and change the players file to reflect 
your changes.  Note that the only way to save your changes is to quit.

BUGS
----

	Currenty, bitmaps are saved in their inverted form, and when
you edit them they are also inverted.  This is really easy to fix, but
I have been too lazy.  

	The way that Griljor saved the dates of characters is not correct 
(it doesn't work), so I did not use it.  I used my own method, which
is incompatible with Griljor's.  As a result, the only accurate dates on
characters are the dates of characters created using <add character> in
Xeditpass.

