Features neccessary for GriljorMud
(this stuff is definitely not for the first release)

     Maps would have to be saveable.  The map could be saved in the same way
as a regular map, except the following things would have to be saved as
well: name of file players are stored in, time of day, whether the players
are renting space at the inn (and what they have stored there), and the
locations and identities of the various NPC's in the game.  Normally the
game would just continue running, saving occasionally except when no one is
playing.  When the system does down, it could be restarted from the save
file.

     Players might be stored in the regular file as usual, just add more
space for information in that file.  That way you could have more than one
mud, and they could transfer the player from one to another.  We might not
allow them totally free switching or simultaneous use, however.  Perhaps we
could allow password files to be variable length, to accomodate information
from one or more maps.  Each map would be able to put its own stuff in, with
the player having entries for as many of the local maps as he has had his
player in and done something worth saving.  Actually, considering UNIX file
structure and ease of making subdirectories with lots of files, why couldn't
we have a file for every player, all in the same directory, treating the
subdirectory as the file and the various files as the records :-)

     Monsters would have to be doable.  We could use the same ideas as
before, running one process for each type of monster.  Each process would
handle all the instances of that monster type.  The use of the phrase
monster and NPC are interchangeable in this doc file.

     We would have to look into the possibility of changing things while the
mud is running so that we don't have to kick everyone out to make changes to
the map.  Perhaps the driver could have ways of notifying players of changes
to rooms, or deletion and addition of rooms.

     We might need to wait until griljor is more server oriented.  Letting
the players use the current front end is too risky.  People will cheat.
The server should just feed info, and that way the players won't have more
access to info than they should.  We wouldn't want players changing the map
or anything like that!

     The window on the right needs to be made into a direct server message
window.  Things typed there should go directly to 'gm'.  Burt can be given
responses with command codes in them.  The response line is searched for
these codes, and they are then used to do things with the player's input.
eg. Burt repsonse could be "&search *&You search *".  He could then easily
be a parser for the server.  The server would send things to the right
subprecesses or handle them himself (ie. door opening, gates, traps, monster
related things, etc.)

     The message window as it now exists could be totally abolished in favor
of this new text window.  The entire window would be like a scrolling text
window of a mud.  You could send messages to others in the room easiest by
using 'say', and you could use 'shout' to send to everyone.  Messages could
be sent to specific players or the gm with 'tell player' or 'tell gm' or
even 'tell god'.  Appropriate abbreviations would be available.  A scroll
bar would be necessary (with a nice large saveback :-), and a few simple
things like aliasing and history commands would make it a lot nicer.
Aliases for use in this window could be put in the .griljor file along with
other things we decide to put there.

     A follow leader and group thing would have to be introduced, plus a way
to look for things, and search/examine things.  Following could be automatic
so that you could type messages to other players and such while your leader
was taking you places.  It would be a following routine that had some slight
randomness in it, but basically stuck to the path the leader took.  You
could direct your own movements at any time and still 'follow' the leader
(for the purpose of experience points).

     We would need classes.  Players would need to choose to be a certain
class and they would get certain benefits from it.  Objects could be set to
be only useable by certain classes.  It could be a bitmask just like the
teams thing is going to be.  Each map could decide on the number and names
of the classes in it, and each player's saved info would include a level he
was in his class in each map (he could be different class in each map.)

     Perhaps instead of having textual notes about what other players are
doing with their hands, we could have a little display that shows what
object each player has in their hands.  I think it might also be time to all
players to use all three hands and put the little movement emblem in any of
the three.  The display of others' hands would should those of the people
that are currently visible to you automatically (or I suppose you could turn
it off if you wanted to save X drawing time.)
