Things to do for version 1.0  (list revised May 2, 1991)
========================================================

Features to add to griljor:
	1. reset stats should have "are you sure?" feature
	2. debugging mode should be a command line option and not
	   a compiling option.
	3. pathname of the library and names of the library directories
	   should be optionally environment variables, so that griljor
	   can be run in a different environment than it was compiled in.
	4. Check the magics code and allow objects to drain magic power
	   points.  This will limit use of powerful objects, and
	   provide for magic points to be used for something, as spells
	   are not going to be implemented in version 1.
	5. Magic powers in objects should be handled slightly differently.
	   Make objects more easily definable as magical (more flags!),
	   and require a certain amount of magic power for use.
	6. let editmap select times of day and darkness.
	7. allow maps to have an attached help file that people can
	   look at during the game, a theme file.
	8. Add an instructions feature that allows people to scan the
	   full documentation from the the game select screen.
	9. Write full user and designer (map and object) documentation.
	10.Packets and other transmissions should contain major and minor
	   version numbers so that different, incompatible versions of griljor
	   can avoid each other.  If major version number doesn't match, there
	   should not be interaction between players.  If minor version numbers
	   don't match, then just a warning message should be given.
	11.There should be a command line option people can use to make
	   a game local, and a compiler option that would make all games local .
	   Games private to local machines would be used for slow nets,
	   testing unfinished maps, testing changes to griljor etc.

Bugs to fix in griljor:
	1. players entering a room should not see a flicker showing
	   where a previous player entered.  This one needs to checked
	   out to see whether anything needs to be done for it.
	3. Check over the magic items code and make teleporter objects
	   work correctly. (see changes to magic in above list)
	4. Click buttons and the movement buffer in editmap should
	   preserve recorded objects the same way they do regular
	   ones.
	5  Remains of code for special objects once used in explosions
	   should be removed.
	6. Fix the bug that sometimes keeps people from healing.
	7. Fix the bug that keeps people who's missile kills someone 
	   after their own death from coming back to life.  The victim
	   always gains a level in the process (the killer who never
	   comes back to life is the one affected).
	   

Major revisions or bug fixes concerning multiple pieces of griljor code:
	1. flags need to be implemented differently, in fact, all
	   objects that are 'important' need to be handled by the same
	   server routines to see that none are lost or duplicated.
	   It needs a lot of flexibility.  The driver is to handle
	   requests by players to pickup or drop these objects.
	   Destruction of these items needs to handled right as well.
	2. A segment of code should be added to editmap that checks maps
	   before saving them to look for anomalies and warn the user.
	   Obtor could use that kind of feature as well.  Objects in the
	   map that have bad id numbers can use a special bitmap to signify
	   such a condition, allowing the user to use a different object
	   set if neccessary.  The driver, on the other hand, will ignore
	   all objects with incorrect numbers.
	3. The code to pass hostnames and driver addresses around should
	   be completed, according to the written plans made for this.
	   The test of this will be a game played between two or three
	   different machines which cannot share the local game listing
	   file.
	4. Object storage struct is to be changed.  Space for all 
	   probable flags will be added now, even though not all will be
	   immediately implemented.  These will all default to zero, but
	   at least when version two comes out, the object files will
	   be compatible with those from version one, or will be an easy
	   extension.
	5. X code needs to be fixed so griljor will work on color displays.
	   Whether color definition will be allowed for objects depends on
	   time constraints.  In no case will version 1 allow more than
	   one color in any particular object.
	6. Instead of fill ray.c implementation, we shall use a simple radius
	   drawing routine to implment dark rooms and light.  If you can
	   see another person, then you will also see ALL the squares they
	   happen to light up.  Default room lighting will be global, but
	   lit, daylit, and dark will all be supported.
	7. More things will be handed over to the maker of the map:
	   rate of player healing, rate of level advancement, hit points
	   per level, magic points per level, and anything else that can
	   be easily thrown in with these.
	8. Protocol of communication between the driver and players, and
	   between players must be made more standard, so that people on
	   different kinds of machines can play against each other.
	   

Bullet-proofing checks that need to be made in the code:
	1. Look for all possible ways dynamic variables could be
	   involved in segmentation errors.
	2. Look for strings that might be allowed to overwrite the end
	   of their allocated space.


Programs to be delivered in griljor package:
	setup: Makefile, IMake file, README
	main programs: griljor, grildriver, editmap, editpass, obtor
	utilities: textbit, rotate, mkmask, testburt
	The makefile should be cleaned up.

Documents to be completed:
	1. documentation on each of the programs listed above.
	3. docs on map making strategies.
	3. docs on object making strategies.
	4. some examples of object types that work together.
	5. docs on how to use environment variable options.
	6. README about compiling and setting it all up.
	7. docs on possible portability problems.


Things to be saved until version 2 or greater:
	1. map storage method is to be changed.  Squares will be depth 4,
	   and the differences between recorded and non-recorded objects
	   will be minimized.  Editmap will be changed to allow all four
	   slots to be edited conveniently.  The first slot will be reserved
	   for the floor character.  Drawing routines will look for other
	   things without masks in other slots and they will be drawn instead
	   of the floor (the floor will still be there, however).
	   More than one recorded object will be allowed per square, and the
	   find_empty_slot() routine will not need to differentiate between
	   the two types.  All routines that reference recorded objects will
	   need to be changed or at least checked.  Error conditions
	   concerning demand for the presence for the recorded object record
	   will be quietly met with created blank records (filled with the
	   object's default values.)  In other words, a lot of research
	   will need to go into this change to insure that everything
	   that needs to be changed is done.  No other fixes should go on
	   simultaneous to this.
	2. A program to convert maps from the old format to the new will
	   have to be comissioned.  The change will also implement storage
	   of object numbers as shorts rather than chars, to allow for
	   a larger number of objects to be used in each map.
	3. When short sized (2-byte) object numbers are employed, editmap
	   will have to be changed to accomidate the extra objects over
	   the current 256 limit.
	4. Objects may be spells, with a separate inventory page for a player's
	   list of spells (possibly allowing a player to practice them :-)
	   Map editor then simply defines which objects are useable as player
	   spells.  Player program will offer these spells to player for
	   use at times when he has sufficient level and magic power.
	5. ray.c will be made to work.
	6. docs on implementation.
	7. The communication architecture may be changed for version 2.
	   If the free and open front-end ideas used now don't work out
	   very well, we'll make griljor more like the server-client model.


Distribution:
	1. Griljor will be made available on soda via ftp.
	2. News will be posted telling people about it, but it will
	   only be claimed to be a beta-test version.
	3. People will be allowed to copy and distribute it free of charge,
	   but we will withold the right to distribute it after modifying it.
	4. Cheating will be declared trivial and not encouraged.
	5. It will be made to work on Suns running BSD 4.3 and having
	   monochrome or color displays.



Things that have already been done toward version 1:

	5. Burt should log more information about those that talk with
	   him (like login name and/or person name). <DONE>
	6. let editmap pick room lightness.  <DONE>
	7. let editmap select whether neutrals exist.  <DONE>
	10.allow for comments in the time restriction file so that it
	   can contain an explanation of what the data is for and how
	   the differnet times are arranged. <DONE>
	2. The driver is not saving the correct date to the password
	   file when a player's record is changed.  This is neccessary
	   so that the passfile editing program can deleted old and moldy
	   records. <DONE>
	5. Fix explosions to be an object you specify, not a
	   special missile.  <DONE>
