		     Griljor Design Specification
			     Revision 1.0
				5/5/95

	       Copyright (C) 1995  Griljor Design Group
			 All rights reserved.


1 Overview 

1.1 Project Description

The original computer game, Griljor, is being re-designed and
re-implemented from scratch.  The name is being reused because Griljor
was never officially released on the net.

The original game is played on a map designed by placing objects in
rooms on a grid.  Players act upon the objects in the map and interact
with each other.  Objects and maps are designed with special editors.
The redesigned game really covers a much broader spectrum of games,
and is better described as simply a support system for multi-player
network games with graphical user interfaces.

In the redesigned game, objects are defined by code rather than data.
Everything in the game is an object, including the map, the rooms, and
the players.  Redefinition of the objects changes the game.  Only the
client and server remain constant, and they provide support for the
networking, graphical interface, and object servicing needs common to
every game written using Griljor's object definition language.

A standard server runs all the code associated with objects and
handles all object interactions.  The server contains an
object-oriented language interpreter to execute the code in each
object's methods.  The server makes connections with as many clients as
the game in progress will support.  The server does not use a
graphical interface.

Players use a client program with a graphical interface to establish a
network connection with the server.  In the server, one or more
objects represent the player and act(s) as mediator(s) for the player
in the game world.  Using extensions of the object definition
language, mediating objects feed information to the player and accept
and act on player inputs.

Non-player characters (or "monsters") are represented in much the same
way as players, except that they have AI code to determine their
actions, instead of a reliance on input from a human user.

A metaserver helps players looking for servers running games they'd
like to join.  Objects using metaservice extensions to the object
definition language, can make a standard Griljor server act as a
metaserver.

1.2 Project History

Griljor was originally conceived in the Fall of 1989 and in the couple
years that followed, a successful but difficult to extend
implementation was created at U.C. Berkeley.  Many CS students there
played the game, but the source was never officially distributed on
the net, probably because the authors never felt it was really
finished.  Occasionally since that time, the source has been requested
by Berkeley students interested in setting up the game.  The game is
currently available to play the CSUA's machines at U.C. Berkeley.

There was also some design activity about a year and a half ago.
Those emails were archived and have been used as part of the basis for
this document.

1.3 Design Document

This document describes the design details of a new implementation of
Griljor.  The present tense is used throughout the document, even when
describing features that are not yet implemented (or even decided
upon!)  The purpose of this is to allow the document to evolve from
design document into project description as the work progresses.

The document is divided into chapters, which are separate files, so
that responsibility for the writeup of chapters can be distributed
among the members of the design team.

1.4 Project Team

1.4.1 Team Members

The project team consists of as many people from the original design
and implementation teams as are still interested in the project, plus
any one else having an interest in providing input on this design.

Input for this design has been received from the following people:
	Eric van Bezooijen
	Van A. Boughner
	Tom Holub
	Keir Morgan
	Mel Nicholson
	Douglas R. Stein

1.4.2 Team Leadership

Van A. Boughner is the project leader.  His responsibilities include
(a) coordinating the work of team members, (b) arbitrating design and
implementation decisions when a consensus cannot be reached by the
team, (c) training new team members, (d) and acting as group
representative.

<Anything else I should be responsible for?  What guarantees would you
like to see here to insure that I don't unfairly dominate the design
and stifle your good ideas?>

1.5 Policies

1.5.1 Distribution

The copyright notice should always be included on this document
whenever it is distributed.  Distribution of the design document
should be limited to personnel on the design team until the document
is ready for wider distribution.

1.5.2 Copyrights

Initially, all rights will be reserved by the Griljor Design Group,
jointly owned by all who contribute to design and implementation.  Van
A. Boughner is the official representative of this group to outside
parties.

<Under what eventual copyright rules should we distribute the final
product?  No Modification?  GNU?  Berkeley?  Free?>

1.5.3 Monetary Considerations

<Should we allow free distribution and modification?  Should we
reserve all rights to making money off the software?  Should we
actually try to make money with it somehow?  If so, how do we properly
repay the people who contribute?>
